A chatbot (also known as a talkbot, chatterbot, Bot, IM bot, interactive agent, or Artificial Conversational Entity) is a computer program or an artificial intelligence which conducts a conversation via auditory or textual methods. Such programs are often designed to convincingly simulate how a human would behave as a conversational partner, thereby passing the Turing test. Chatbots are typically used in dialog systems for various practical purposes including customer service or information acquisition. Some chatterbots use sophisticated natural language processing systems, but many simpler systems scan for keywords within the input, then pull a reply with the most matching keywords, or the most similar wording pattern, from a database.

The term "ChatterBot" was originally coined by Michael Mauldin (creator of the first Verbot, Julia) in 1994 to describe these conversational programs.Today, most chatbots are either accessed via virtual assistants such as Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa, via messaging apps such as Facebook Messenger or WeChat, or via individual organizations' apps and websites. Chatbots can be classified into usage categories such as conversational commerce (e-commerce via chat), analytics, communication, customer support, design, developer tools, education, entertainment, finance, food, games, health, HR, marketing, news, personal, productivity, shopping, social, sports, travel and utilities.
Background
In 1950, Alan Turing's famous article "Computing Machinery and Intelligence" was published, which proposed what is now called the Turing test as a criterion of intelligence. This criterion depends on the ability of a computer program to impersonate a human in a real-time written conversation with a human judge, sufficiently well that the judge is unable to distinguish reliably—on the basis of the conversational content alone—between the program and a real human. The notoriety of Turing's proposed test stimulated great interest in Joseph Weizenbaum's program ELIZA, published in 1966, which seemed to be able to fool users into believing that they were conversing with a real human. However Weizenbaum himself did not claim that ELIZA was genuinely intelligent, and the Introduction to his paper presented it more as a debunking exercise:

[In] artificial intelligence ... machines are made to behave in wondrous ways, often sufficient to dazzle even the most experienced observer. But once a particular program is unmasked, once its inner workings are explained ... its magic crumbles away; it stands revealed as a mere collection of procedures ... The observer says to himself "I could have written that". With that thought he moves the program in question from the shelf marked "intelligent", to that reserved for curios ... The object of this paper is to cause just such a re-evaluation of the program about to be "explained". Few programs ever needed it more.

ELIZA's key method of operation (copied by chatbot designers ever since) involves the recognition of cue words or phrases in the input, and the output of corresponding pre-prepared or pre-programmed responses that can move the conversation forward in an apparently meaningful way (e.g. by responding to any input that contains the word 'MOTHER' with 'TELL ME MORE ABOUT YOUR FAMILY').Thus an illusion of understanding is generated, even though the processing involved has been merely superficial. ELIZA showed that such an illusion is surprisingly easy to generate, because human judges are so ready to give the benefit of the doubt when conversational responses are capable of being interpreted as "intelligent".

Interface designers have come to appreciate that humans' readiness to interpret computer output as genuinely conversational—even when it is actually based on rather simple pattern-matching—can be exploited for useful purposes. Most people prefer to engage with programs that are human-like, and this gives chatbot-style techniques a potentially useful role in interactive systems that need to elicit information from users, as long as that information is relatively straightforward and falls into predictable categories. Thus, for example, online help systems can usefully employ chatbot techniques to identify the area of help that users require, potentially providing a "friendlier" interface than a more formal search or menu system. This sort of usage holds the prospect of moving chatbot technology from Weizenbaum's "shelf ... reserved for curios" to that marked "genuinely useful computational methods".

Development
The classic historic early chatbots are ELIZA (1966) and PARRY (1972).More recent notable programs include A.L.I.C.E., Jabberwacky and D.U.D.E (Agence Nationale de la Recherche and CNRS 2006). While ELIZA and PARRY were used exclusively to simulate typed conversation, many chatbots now include functional features such as games and web searching abilities. In 1984, a book called The Policeman's Beard is Half Constructed was published, allegedly written by the chatbot Racter (though the program as released would not have been capable of doing so).

One pertinent field of AI research is natural language processing. Usually, weak AI fields employ specialized software or programming languages created specifically for the narrow function required. For example, A.L.I.C.E. uses a markup language called AIML, which is specific to its function as a conversational agent, and has since been adopted by various other developers of, so called, Alicebots. Nevertheless, A.L.I.C.E. is still purely based on pattern matching techniques without any reasoning capabilities, the same technique ELIZA was using back in 1966. This is not strong AI, which would require sapience and logical reasoning abilities.

Jabberwacky learns new responses and context based on real-time user interactions, rather than being driven from a static database. Some more recent chatbots also combine real-time learning with evolutionary algorithms that optimise their ability to communicate based on each conversation held. Still, there is currently no general purpose conversational artificial intelligence, and some software developers focus on the practical aspect, information retrieval.

Chatbot competitions focus on the Turing test or more specific goals. Two such annual contests are the Loebner Prize and The Chatterbox Challenge (offline since 2015, materials can still be found from web archives).

According to Forrester (2015), AI will replace 16 percent of American jobs by the end of the decade.Chatbots have been used in applications such as customer service, sales and product education. However, a study conducted by Narrative Science in 2015 found that 80 percent of their respondents believe AI improves worker performance and creates jobs.[citation needed]

Many companies' chatbots run on messaging apps like Facebook Messenger (since 2016), WeChat (since 2013),WhatsApp, LiveChat, Kik, Slack, Line, Telegram, or simply via SMS. They are used for B2C customer service, sales and marketing.

In 2016, Facebook Messenger allowed developers to place chatbots on their platform. There were 30,000 bots created for Messenger in the first six months, rising to 100,000 by September 2017.

Since September 2017, this has also been as part of a pilot program on WhatsApp. Airlines KLM and Aeroméxico both announced their participation in the testing;both airlines had previously launched customer services on the Facebook Messenger platform.

The bots usually appear as one of the user's contacts, but can sometimes act as participants in a group chat.

Many banks and insurers, media and e-commerce companies, airlines and hotel chains, retailers, health care providers, government entities and restaurant chains have used chatbots to answer simple questions, increase customer engagement,for promotion, and to offer additional ways to order from them.

A 2017 study showed 4% of companies used chatbots.According to a 2016 study, 80% of businesses said they intended to have one by 2020.

As part of company apps and websites
Previous generations of chatbots were present on company websites, e.g. Ask Jenn from Alaska Airlines which debuted in 2008 or Expedia's virtual customer service agent which launched in 2011.The newer generation of chatbots includes IBM Watson-powered "Rocky", introduced in February 2017 by the New York City-based e-commerce company Rare Carat to provide information to prospective diamond buyers.

Company internal platforms
Other companies explore ways they can use chatbots internally, for example for Customer Support, Human Resources, or even in Internet-of-Things (IoT) projects. Overstock.com, for one, has reportedly launched a chatbot named Mila to automate certain simple yet time-consuming processes when requesting for a sick leave.Other large companies such as Lloyds Banking Group, Royal Bank of Scotland, Renault and Citroën are now using automated online assistants instead of call centres with humans to provide a first point of contact. A SaaS chatbot business ecosystem has been steadily growing since the F8 Conference when Zuckerberg unveiled that Messenger would allow chatbots into the app.

Toys
Chatbots have also been incorporated into devices not primarily meant for computing such as toys.

Hello Barbie is an Internet-connected version of the doll that uses a chatbot provided by the company ToyTalk,which previously used the chatbot for a range of smartphone-based characters for children.These characters' behaviors are constrained by a set of rules that in effect emulate a particular character and produce a storyline.

IBM's Watson computer has been used as the basis for chatbot-based educational toys for companies such as CogniToys intended to interact with children for educational purposes.

Chatbot creation
The process of creating a chatbot follows a pattern similar to the development of a web page or a mobile app. It can be divided into Design, Building, Analytics and Maintenance.

Design
The chatbot design is the process that defines the interaction between the user and the chatbot.The chatbot designer will define the chatbot personality, the questions that will be asked to the users, and the overall interaction.It can be viewed as a subset of the conversational design. In order to speed up this process, designers can use dedicated chatbot design tools, that allow for immediate preview, team collaboration and video export.An important part of the chatbot design is also centered around user testing. User testing can be performed following the same principles that guide the user testing of graphical interfaces.

Building
The process of building a chatbot can be divided into two main tasks: understanding the user's intent and producing the correct answer. The first task involves understanding the user input. In order to properly understand a user input in a free text form, a Natural Language Processing Engine can be used.The second task may involve different approaches depending on the type of the response that the chatbot will generate.

Analytics
The usage of the chatbot can be monitored in order to spot potential flaws or problems. It can also provide useful insights that can improve the final user experience.

Maintenance
To keep chatbots up to speed with changing company products and services, traditional chatbot development platforms require ongoing maintenance. This can either be in the form of an ongoing service provider or for larger enterprises in the form of an in-house chatbot training team.To eliminate these costs, some startups are experimenting with Artificial Intelligence to develop self-learning chatbots, particularly in Customer Service applications.

Chatbot development platforms
The process of building, testing and deploying chatbots can be done on cloud based chatbot development platforms offered by cloud Platform as a Service (PaaS) providers such as Yekaliva, Oracle Cloud Platform, SnatchBot and IBM Watson.These cloud platforms provide Natural Language Processing, Artificial Intelligence and Mobile Backend as a Service for chatbot development.
	
Scientists fear emerging strain could be more transmissible and have higher resistance to vaccines.


The Omicron coronavirus variant that emerged in southern Africa has sparked global alarm owing to its unprecedented set of genetic mutations.

Its 50 mutations include more than 30 on the spike protein, the exposed part of the virus that binds with human cells. These could make it more transmissible than the dominant Delta variant and more likely to evade the immune protection conferred by Covid-19 vaccines or previous infection.


Scientists are worried for two main reasons. One is epidemiological and relates to the speed with which the variant first detected this month is spreading in South Africa, particularly in Gauteng province that includes the cities of Johannesburg and Pretoria.

Omicron’s distinctive mutation pattern means that conventional PCR tests can distinguish it from Delta and other variants, without the need for full genome sequencing. Testing has shown it is responsible for more than 90 per cent of infections in Gauteng.

At the same time analysis of wastewater in Pretoria for traces of the Sars-Cov-2 virus — an indicator of outbreak size — suggested that infections had surged close to levels last seen during the Delta wave six months ago.


The other cause for concern is Omicron’s highly unusual genetic profile. Jeffrey Barrett, director of the Covid-19 Genomics Initiative at the Wellcome Sanger Institute, described the strain as “an unprecedented sampling” of mutations from four earlier variants of concern: Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta. There are other genetic changes not seen before whose significance is as yet unknown, he added.

Worryingly, said Jacob Glanville, a computational immunologist and founder of US therapeutics company Centivax, 15 of the mutations were on the “receptor binding domain”, which acts like a “grappling hook” for the Sars-Cov-2 virus to enter human cells.


These mutations help the virus circumvent the body’s immune defences because it is trained by vaccines or previous infection to fight the original strain first detected in Wuhan. By comparison, the Delta variant that has come to dominate the pandemic worldwide reduced the effectiveness of vaccines with just three mutations in this region.

In an Omicron briefing on Monday, Jonathan Van-Tam, England’s deputy chief medical officer, said it was “likely” there would be an impact on the effectiveness of vaccines.


As Sars-Cov-2 replicates, errors in the copying process occasionally change some of the 30,000 biochemical letters in its genetic code — typically at a rate of two mutations a month.

Though Omicron was first detected in samples from Botswana and South Africa, no one knows for sure where it originated and how it accumulated so many changes.

But scientists believe that the variant is likely to have evolved in a single individual whose immune system was compromised through medical treatment or disease — an “evolutionary gym” as Sharon Peacock, professor of public health and microbiology at the University of Cambridge, put it.


Slawomir Kubik, a genomics research expert at Geneva-based biotech Sophia Genetics, said many of Omicron’s mutations came “completely out of the blue” and had not been observed before in other strains.

Therefore, scientists “have very little visibility on what these new mutations are doing to how the virus works”, he explained, adding that once it began to spread more widely its “true fitness” would become clear.

Some of the mutations indicate increased transmissibility, while changes in the genetic code make it harder for the immune system, trained by existing vaccinations or previous infection with another variant, to tackle a new strain. But it will take researchers several weeks or months to work out the interactions between them and their cumulative impact.

Even if Omicron proves to be the most infectious Sars-Cov-2 variant so far, there is no clear evidence yet from South Africa or anywhere else about whether it will turn out to cause worse symptoms. “It could go either way,” said Centivax’s Glanville. “The mutations could make it worse or the mutations could make it more benign.”

Several doctors in South Africa have remarked that people infected with Omicron so far seem to show milder symptoms than those in Delta patients. Many are asymptomatic. Others suffer from coughs, fatigue, body aches and headaches. No deaths have been attributed yet to the new variant.

“I think it will be a mild disease, hopefully,” said Angelique Coetzee, chair of the South African Medical Association. “We’re confident we can handle it.”

Many experts, however, caution against reaching such conclusions when the variant has not been properly researched. They noted that, so far, it had mainly infected young and healthy people who are less susceptible to severe symptoms, whatever variant is responsible.

Recommended
News in-depthCoronavirus pandemic
‘The virus is always searching for its next move’: why science is alert to new variants

Michael Mina, an epidemiologist at Harvard Medical School, pointed out that the number of reported cases in the Pretoria region was relatively small compared with the high viral load detected in wastewater. And while that could mean most infections were so mild that they were going undetected, it was more likely that wastewater was a leading indicator and that case numbers would catch up. “There isn’t much in this virus [genetic] sequence suggesting it should be very mild,” he said.

Even if Omicron caused milder symptoms on average, the total toll of hospitalisations and deaths would be greater if it is much more infectious and better at escaping human immune protection.

Many scientists supported the immediate response of banning travel from countries where Omicron was spreading fast. “The objective of the border closures and travel restrictions that have been announced is to limit the global spread of the variant,” said Francois Balloux, director of the UCL Genetics Institute in London.

He added: “If [Omicron] were more transmissible than Delta, this strategy is most unlikely to succeed in the long term but might allow gaining some time to further increase vaccination rates, including third doses, and deploy promising drugs currently in the pipeline.”

If Omicron spreads around the world and leads to a marked increase in hospitalisations and deaths, then governments may have to reimpose social-distancing measures or intensify existing restrictions which, in the worst case, could mean a return to lockdowns.


Despite the many uncertainties, most scientists are more confident than they were when the earlier Alpha and Delta waves arrived.

The new variant is “most unlikely to fully escape immunisation provided by vaccination and prior infection”, said Balloux. “With high vaccination rates and promising drugs on the horizon, a possible B.1.1.529 wave should be far less painful to weather than the Alpha and Delta ones.”

Another positive is that, because of the efforts of South African scientists, countries have been warned about the risks posed by Omicron far sooner than they were about Delta, which had already spread widely from India before the world was alerted.


F1 2021's penultimate round takes place at the sport's new fastest street track, with another potentially decisive weekend in the Max Verstappen-Lewis Hamilton title fight; watch qualifying at 5pm on Saturday, race at 5.30pm on Sunday - live on Sky Sports F1.
Two more races, only one champion. Max Verstappen and Lewis Hamilton's epic title battle heads for its penultimate round this weekend with the first-ever Saudi Arabian GP - and you can watch all the action, and possibly the crowning of a champion, live on Sky Sports F1.

Verstappen and Hamilton, who have been closely-matched all season long, are split by just eight points ahead of the inaugural race at Jeddah's newly-built Corniche Circuit - officially the fastest street track in F1 history.

That points margin means Verstappen can clinch the title this weekend, but also means there is the very real prospect of a 'winner-takes-all' season finale in Abu Dhabi, with Hamilton and Mercedes the driver and team in form.

 
A new track with jeopardy at every corner and a championship on the line - it is set up to be a crucial and incredibly exciting weekend.

The key times are:

Qualifying is live on Sky Sports F1 and Sky Sports Main Event on Saturday at 5pm.
The race is live on Sky Sports F1 and Sky Sports Main Event on Sunday at 5.30pm.

If Max wins the race with the fastest lap (26 points) and Hamilton finishes sixth (8 points) or lower.
If Max wins the race without the fastest lap (25 points) and Hamilton finishes seventh (6 points) or lower.
If Max finishes second with the fastest lap (19 points) and Hamilton finishes 10th (1 point) or lower.
If Max finishes second without the fastest lap (18 points) and Hamilton finishes outside the top-10.

The Jeddah Corniche track joins F1 as its newest street circuit, with a specially-built layout designed to encourage fast wheel-to-wheel racing. And the drivers will not have seen anything much like it.

 
With an average speed of over 160mph, it only falls behind Monza in terms of the fastest on the whole calendar, all while surrounded by barriers and little run-off. Think the challenges and tight walls of Monaco, Singapore and Baku with the speed and flowing corners of Spa.

The track, located on the Corniche - a coastal resort area of Jeddah - alongside the Red Sea, will also be the second longest in F1 behind Spa, while it has 27 corners to contend with, most of which are high-speed turns.

Jeddah Corniche key track facts
Circuit length	6.174km
Corners	27
DRS zones	3
Race distance	50 laps.
There are also set to be three DRS zones for the event to encourage overtaking, with straight-line speed certainly set to be a factor despite the number of turns.

"The design brings out the best of a modern street circuit but also has fast-paced free-flowing areas that will create fast speeds and overtaking opportunities," said F1 managing director of motorsports Ross Brawn.

 
It will host the first F1 race in Saudi Arabia, although it is unlikely to be a permanent home for the races despite the country's lengthy deal for a spot on the calendar.

A purpose-built venue is being constructed closer to the capital of Riyadh, with the Jeddah Corniche track - which has been completed in less than a year - set to be used until around 2024.


Opinion is split among the Sky Sports' writers as we make the case for and against Chelsea, Manchester City and Liverpool winning the Premier League title; follow midweek games with our live blogs and watch free match highlights shortly after full-time



 
 
 
With Manchester City and Liverpool winning at the weekend while leaders Chelsea could only draw at home to Manchester United, only two points separate the Premier League top three.



We assess the cases for and against the three contenders before sharing the opinions of our writers.

The advantage is with Chelsea at the moment as they are top of the Premier League table, supremely organised and with remarkable squad depth. Jorginho's error robbed them of a clean sheet against Manchester United but it was only the fifth goal conceded this season.

Thomas Tuchel has established a system that seems fluid regardless of personnel and that is a huge weapon when the squad is as stocked as this. Twenty-four different players have started a Premier League game for Chelsea this season. They have youth and experience.


The second half of Chelsea's season is not without its complication given their involvement in the Club World Cup in February as a result of being the reigning European champions. Games against Brighton and Arsenal are likely to be rearranged, causing fixture congestion.

Will they be able to negotiate that while Liverpool and Manchester City continue to push? There are fewer Premier League winners in the Chelsea squad. A true title race will be a new experience for some and a stern examination if nerves are tested in the spring.

The reigning Premier League champions are favourites with the bookmakers and as the only team in the competition to win their last three games they are now only one point off the lead. We are approaching the time of year when City clicked into gear last time around.

That 21-game winning run in all competitions last season blew away the competition and with the distraction of the international breaks behind them, there is always the possibility that Pep Guardiola's side will find their rhythm and begin churning out the victories.

The hope for their rivals stems from those rare slips. The shock 2-0 home defeat to Crystal Palace. The failures to score in losing to Tottenham and drawing with Southampton. Those off-days never spark a crisis but tossing away points could be costly in a tight title race.

Perhaps surprisingly, Chelsea and Liverpool have both outscored City this season. While the talk of a need for a genuine striker is frequently made to look foolish as opponents are thrashed, that nagging concern will remain until and unless the title is retained.

Jurgen Klopp's Liverpool saw their title hopes collapse spectacularly last winter as injuries at the back undermined them but they are a force once more and in stunning form after back-to-back four-goal wins at Anfield. 
Three of the four individual top scorers in the Premier League wear Liverpool red and with Mohamed Salah in this form they know how to win consistently. Prior to last season's blip this group once won 110 points over a 38-game period - 36 wins and two draws.

Nobody expects those giddy heights to be reached again. Even recently, there have been lapses. High-scoring draws with Brighton and Brentford. Losing to West Ham in a five-goal thriller. Liverpool remain as potent as any team around but there are vulnerabilities now.

There is also the disruption of the Africa Cup of Nations in January. That is of particular significance to Liverpool given that it will see Salah and Sadio Mane depart for Cameroon. It is a concern for Klopp. Could it be decisive?

Key games still to come
January 2 2022 – Chelsea vs Liverpool
January 15 2022 – Man City vs Chelsea
April 9 2022 – Man City vs Liverpool

Peter Smith: Chelsea still leading the way
Chelsea will be kicking themselves for not taking four more points from their past two Premier League home games against Burnley and Manchester United. But regardless, with more than a third of the season gone, they're top of the Premier League and my pre-season selection are looking serious contenders for the title.

Their standout statistic is the five goals they've conceded in 13 games. It's the best record in the division and two of those goals were penalties. Edouard Mendy may have made a rare mistake against Manchester United on Sunday, giving Fred the chance to win it, but he has otherwise been exceptional for the Blues, with a mean defence, led by Thiago Silva and Antonio Rudiger, ahead of him. It's that kind of foundation titles are built on.


Chelsea are currently top of the Premier League.
But it has been the work of Chelsea's defenders on the front foot which has been just as impressive. Reece James - one of the Premier League's best players this season - is top scorer and has four goals and four assists from right wing-back. He exemplifies the team's excellence in execution of Thomas Tuchel's system, while Ben Chilwell was providing real threat down the other flank before his serious knee injury.

Rudiger could have clinched three points in injury-time on Sunday but he has scored twice already for a defensive unit which has contributed almost half of the Blues' 31 goals.

The injury to Chilwell was a blow and, although Marcos Alonso has come back into the side, it could be an area to address in January. But with Romelu Lukaku and N'Golo Kante hoping to soon build up a run of games after recent injury issues, the midfield and attacking units are set to improve and the feeling is this Chelsea team should get stronger during the busy Christmas period.

After the festivities come the pivotal Premier League games, with Liverpool at home and Manchester City away, either side of a FA Cup third-round tie, at the start of January. If Chelsea are still top after that, then they really will take some stopping.

Gerard Brand: City have the best balance

Manchester City are looking for their fourth title in five years
I find it hard to go against City, having been stung in the past. They're quietly going about their business and never seem to let outside voices in.

While you could argue Chelsea have a marginally better defence, and Liverpool have more power up front, Manchester City have the best all-round balance, and the fewest weak spots. That I met their 2-1 win over a very good West Ham with a shrug of the shoulders says it all.

Thomas Tuchel has worked wonders at Chelsea, but his record of two defeats, two draws and just one goal scored at home against big-six opposition concerns me.

I can't get City's 1-0 win at Stamford Bridge in September out of my head; they were just magnificent in every department, and when it comes to the biggest Premier League games, it's difficult to go against them.

And while Liverpool are exhilarating to watch with their 'you have a go, we'll have a go' philosophy, even Jurgen Klopp admits they concede too many chances. That's before we get on to the impact of AFCON; Sadio Mane and Mo Salah could be missing for up to four games in the new year, and though City could be missing Riyad Mahrez, ready-made replacements are clearer to see.

City are a ruthless machine with so many routes to goal. Like the bookies - they are odds on for a fourth title in five years - I can't see past them.

Ben Grounds: AFCON overplayed in Liverpool quest

Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane will be at the Africa Cup of Nations
I was a lone voice when I predicted Liverpool to regain the title the last time we sat around the table and discussed this topic back in August, but I've seen no reason to change my mind now 13 league games down the line. The fire still burns brightly within Jurgen Klopp, witnessed during his side's recent 4-0 drubbing of Arsenal, and his players continue to set new records.

Liverpool have scored two or more goals in 17 consecutive games, the first top-flight team to do that since Sunderland in 1927, and their most recent disembowelment of meek Premier League opposition - another 4-0 win at home to Southampton - could so easily have been more.

Of course, their hopes of a second Premier League title in three seasons has to be viewed within the context of their title rivals, but the "arrogance" shown in Chelsea's defending during their 1-1 draw with Manchester United, as Roy Keane described it, is something that Thomas Tuchel will be desperate to eradicate.



Manchester City showed why they entered the season undercooked in their opening defeat at Tottenham, but while they have dropped points at home to Southampton and Crystal Palace, they have looked formidable at times.

Pep Guardiola has described the prospect of embarking on another 15-match winning streak as pure "fantasy", but given how the top three are accelerating away, I feel it will come down to who comes out on top in a three-way head-to-head between these title protagonists.

Luckily for Liverpool, none of these games are likely to take place when Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Naby Keita are away on international duty during the Africa Cup of Nations between January and February next year. Fifa regulations stipulate that players must be released by their clubs on December 27 - 13 days before the tournament's first match.

Liverpool face Leicester on December 28 and visit Chelsea on January 2 but there is a strong possibility their African players could be given dispensation to join up with their national squads at a later date depending on what can be agreed with their clubs.


Pressure will be on Diogo Jota to perform at the turn of the year
Should Klopp be granted this best-case scenario, he has enough in reserve to absorb those losses in fixtures at home to Brentford and away at Crystal Palace. Conversely, it's worth pointing out that City host Chelsea on January 15, when Edouard Mendy will be away with Senegal.

Palace have got a better expected goals against record than Chelsea this season but have conceded 14 more actual goals than them - a large reason for that has been the performances of Mendy, but Chelsea will have to call upon Kepa Arrizabalaga.

Replacing Salah and Mane simultaneously has been seen as the one major caveat to Liverpool's chances, but Klopp will have a plan ready for those respective fixtures at a time when Tuchel faces arguably his toughest test of the season.

Premier League Review: Was Carrick right to drop Ronaldo? Pressure on Rafa ahead of derby, Howe's problems and title tips

On the latest Essential Football Podcast Alice Piper is joined by Sky Sports football writers Gerard Brand and Ben Grounds to look back on another big weekend at both ends of the Premier League table after Chelsea's lead slipped following a 1-1 draw with Man Utd at Stamford Bridge.
